\subsection{Empirical strategy} \label{sec:empirical-strategy}
We examine how short selling demand signals in the equity lending market affect mutual fund portfolio allocation. Consider the following general characterization of mutual fund holdings, where $\delta Y(i,j,t)$, is the change in holding for fund $j$ holding stock $i$ at time $t$:
\begin{eqnarray} \label{eq:equil_allocation}
Y_{i,j,t} & = & Y\left(Y_{i,j}, Y_{i,t}, Y_{j,t}, \phi_{i,j,t} \right) 
\end{eqnarray}
Mutual fund holdings are an equilibrium outcome at time $t$, determined by the following components: a fund-stock time-invariant component, $Y_{i,j}$, which reflects a fund's time-invariant preferences for an individual stock based on a fund's investment philosophy or style towards a specific stock; a common stock-time component, $Y_{i,t}$, which reflects a common signal about stock fundamentals (including aggregate short selling demand) and explains the demand for a stock across funds; a fund-time component, $Y_{j,t}$, which reflects a fund’s investment style including passive or active, portfolio breadth, and governance across stocks in its portfolio; and a fund-stock-time specific component, $\phi_{i,j,t}$. 

The fund-stock-time specific component, $\phi_{i,j,t}$, captures fund $j$'s specific demand for stock $i$ at time $t$ that is not explained by the components $Y_{i,j}$, $Y_{i,t}$, and $Y_{j,t}$. Our focus is on how a fund $j$'s specific demand for stock $i$, $\phi_{i,j,t}$, changes when the fund receives the private short selling demand signal, $OnLoan_{i,j,t}$, acquired through the lending market on stock $i$ at time $t$.

For example, consider a fund $j$ active in the equity lending market that lends out a certain amount $OnLoan_{i,j,t-1}$ of stock $i$ at time $t-1$. This amount gives the fund a private signal of short selling demand that can affect portfolio allocation at time $t$. Importantly, this information is not a public signal that reflects the demand for a stock by all funds, like the information contained in short interest or index re-balancing, because it would be captured in the component $Y_{i,t}$.\footnote{A measure of aggregate short selling demand is available to institutional investors. Brokers often provide data on special lists and borrowing costs to institutional investors with substantial trading volume. Markit reciprocally shares lending market information with participating clients.}  



Our empirical specification identifies the effect of a private short demand signal that a lender receives in the equity lending market on the lenders' subsequent portfolio decisions. In a saturated fixed effect estimation, we estimate changes in fund-stock portfolio holdings as a function of a fund's lending activity, including fund-stock, stock-time, and fund-time-fixed effects ($\alpha_{i,j}$, $\alpha_{j,t}$, and $\alpha_{i,t}$). These fixed effects absorb public stock-time price signals common to all investors, fund-time information and investment decisions common to all stocks in a fund's portfolio, and fund-stock time-invariant expertise.

% isolates $\phi_{i,j,t}$ by estimating portfolio allocation for all funds (including both those that participate and those that do not participate in the equity lending market) in a saturated specification that includes a full set of . 

To identify the effect of the private signal, $OnLoan_{i,j,t-1}$, on portfolio allocation, we estimate:
\begin{eqnarray} \label{eq:baseline}
Y_{i,j,t} & = &  \alpha_{i,j} + \alpha_{i,t} + \alpha_{j,t} + \beta_{1} OnLoan_{i,j,t-1} + \mathbf{X}_{i,j,t-1}' \gamma_1 + \epsilon_{i,j,t}, 
\end{eqnarray}

\noindent where $Y_{i,j,t}$ is a fund's change in portfolio allocation in stock $i$ at time $t$ (i.e., $PosChange_{i,j,t}$). The variable $OnLoan_{i,j,t-1}$ captures the magnitude of short-selling demand for stock $i$ owned by fund $j$ at time $t-1$ and is measured as the dollar value of shares on loan by fund $j$ divided by market capitalization of stock $i$.  $\mathbf{X}_{i,j,t-1}$ is a matrix of controls measured at the fund-stock-time level that could explain portfolio holdings, including the lagged position market value as a fraction of the fund market value, ($PosWeight$), and $ILLIQ$, a measure of the relative liquidity of a holding within a portfolio (\cite{amihud:02}).\footnote{More details on the definition of the variables is given in Table A.1.} Standard errors are clustered at the fund-time level.

The coefficient $\beta_1$ in equation \ref{eq:baseline} identifies the effect of a short demand signal from fund $j$ on stock $i$ at time $t$ on fund $j$'s portfolio allocation. We predict that $\beta_1$ should be negative if lenders act on the private short selling demand information resulting from their participation in the equity lending market. The counterfactual is funds that do not participate in security lending for stock $i$ and, therefore, do not receive a private signal.  Again, any effect due to information in aggregate $OnLoan_{i,t}$ is absorbed by $\alpha_{i,t}$. 

Next, we examine the ability of active funds to act on short selling demand signals relative to passive funds. We estimate: 
\begin{eqnarray} \label{eq:baseline_active}
Y_{i,j,t} & = &  \alpha_{i,j} + \alpha_{i,t} + \alpha_{j,t} + \beta_{1} OnLoan_{i,j,t-1} + \beta_{2} OnLoan_{i,j,t-1} \times Active_{j} \nonumber \\
& & + \beta_{3} OnLoan_{i,t-1} \times Active_{j} + \mathbf{X}_{i,j,t-1}' \gamma_1 + \epsilon_{i,j,t}, 
\end{eqnarray}

\noindent where $Active_j$ is an indicator variable equal to one for active funds and zero otherwise. The coefficient $\beta_1$ represents the portfolio change for passive funds that have lent stock $i$ at time $t$. We expect $\beta_1$ to be zero since passive funds have no discretion to act on information signals. $\beta_2$ represents the portfolio change for active funds with lent stock $i$ relative to active funds not participating in the lending market. We predict that $\beta_2$ should be negative if active lenders act on the private short selling demand signal.


The coefficient $\beta_{3}$ captures the allocation response of actively managed funds to the public aggregate signal of short selling demand.\footnote{Aggregate short selling demand for stock \textit{i}, $OnLoan_{i,t-1}$, is the sum of $OnLoan_{i,j,t-1}$ across funds at time $t-1$.} We predict $\beta_3$ to be negative if the aggregate short selling demand signal, $OnLoan_{i,t-1}$, is informative and includes a public component all funds receive. Further, we expect $\beta_2$ to continue to be negative if the private signal includes short demand information not captured in the public aggregate signal. 

Equation~\ref{eq:baseline_active} is central to our paper's results. Identifying the effect of the private short demand signal on portfolio allocation decisions allows us to explore a new economic motive for equity lending, namely information acquisition. In further tests, we implement similar estimations to explore how mutual funds use this private information signal on short demand to front-run disclosure of short positions, generate lower losses, and examine how the information is used in portfolio decisions within mutual fund families and by managers across funds. 

In summary, our empirical strategy identifies the effect of short selling demand signals on portfolio allocation by exploiting the microdata on mutual fund holdings and lending in a saturated fixed effect estimation that absorbs fund-stock, fund-time, and stock-time effects. 

\subsection{Large Short Position Public Disclosures} \label{pag:disclosure_data}

% Disclosure Data 
To disentangle the effects of information acquired from participating in the securities lending market from information inferred from public signals, we study the timing of fund managers' portfolio allocation decisions around the public disclosure of large short sale positions. 

Article 9 of Regulation (EU) No 236/2012 requires that large short sale positions in the European Union (EU) are disclosed publicly. Since November 1st, 2012, any net short position larger than 0.5\% of the market capitalization of the company shorted has to be disclosed on the next trading day to the public. Above the disclosure threshold of 0.5\%, further disclosures are obligatory at increments of 0.1\% (e.g., 0.6\%, 0.7\%, etc.) and when the position falls below the 0.5\% disclosure threshold. The disclosure requirement applies to all investors, irrespective of their origin. Disclosure is standardized across all European countries and contains the investor's name, the date of the short position, identifying information on the shorted stock, and the magnitude of the position reported as a percentage of the shorted firm's market capitalization. The regulation and relevant data are described in more detail in \cite{jank_smajlbegovic:2015}, \cite{jones_reed_waller:16}, and \cite{jank_roling_smajlbegovic2020}. Regarding representativeness, publicly disclosed short positions are more frequently observable for large and very liquid stocks \citep{jank_roling_smajlbegovic2020}, which is also the case for our sample. 

% Disclosure Dummy
We collect the short position disclosures from the web pages of the national competent authorities of the EU. These public disclosure events are informative in the sense that they predict negative returns (\cite{jank_smajlbegovic:2015}) but do not fully reveal private information about the structure of shorting demand below the disclosure threshold (\cite{jank_roling_smajlbegovic2020}). We focus on new disclosure events, defined as those in which stocks have not disclosed any public short positions in the previous six months.\footnote{The six-month period between the last reported public short position and the new disclosure makes it more likely that the new disclosure represents an informative public price signal instead of a follow-on disclosure, which is less informative (\cite{jones_reed_waller:16}).} 


% Disclosure Figure
%Figure~\ref{Disclosure_Events} displays cumulative position changes of active funds from six months before to six months after the disclosure of a large short position. Following the disclosure of a large short position, we observe a strong decline in mutual funds' positions for both stocks that were and that were not lent out. This decline in positions suggests that both groups react to the public signal of negative news. More importantly, we find that security lenders not only reduce positions after the public disclosure but start to exit positions in the three months before the disclosure of large short positions. 

%Regression Disclosure 
To understand the timing of fund managers' portfolio allocation decisions around the disclosure we study active funds' portfolio adjustments in the months around the disclosure of large short positions in the following regression framework:  
%---
\begin{eqnarray} \label{eq:big-shorts}
Y_{i,j,t} & = & a_0 + \beta_1  OnLoan_{i,j,t-1} + \beta_2  OnLoan_{i,j,t-1} \times OnLoan_{i,t-1} +\nonumber\\
& &  \beta_3 Disclosure_{i,t+1} \times OnLoan_{i,j,t-1} +  \beta_4 Disclosure_{i,t} \times OnLoan_{i,j,t-1} +\nonumber \\ 
& &  \beta_5 Disclosure_{i,t-1} \times OnLoan_{i,j,t-1} + \mathbf{X}_{i,j,t-1}' \gamma  + \alpha_{i,t}  + \alpha_{j,t} + \alpha_{i,j} + \epsilon_{i,j,t}
\end{eqnarray}
%---
where $Disclosure_{i,t}$ is an indicator variable equal to one if there is a new short position disclosure in month $t$ for stock $i$ and zero otherwise. Similarly, $Disclosure_{i,t+1}$ is an indicator variable equal to one if there is a new short position disclosure in month $t+1$ (i.e., in the future), and $Disclosure_{i,t-1}$ is an indicator variable equal to one if there is a new short position disclosure in month $t-1$ (i.e., in the past). The fixed effect framework adsorbs common effects of the disclosure on portfolio allocation. We hypothesize that mutual fund managers can better time position re-allocation around disclosure when they observe private signals of shorting demand in the securities lending market. Therefore, we focus on how the fund's private signal of demand $OnLoan_{i,j,t-1}$ interacts with the disclosure timing of a large short position. 

The coefficients $\beta_1$ and $\beta_2$, examined in columns 1 and 2 of Table 5, represent the effect of a private shorting demand signal on portfolio allocation. If observing private short demand signals allows mutual funds to improve the timing of portfolio decisions by anticipating large short positions, then we expect active lenders to front-run public disclosure. Therefore, the main coefficient of interest in this regression is $\beta_3$. This coefficient measures how security lenders adjust their stock positions in the month before a large public short sale disclosure relative to non-lenders holding that stock. In contrast, we expect $\beta_4$ and $\beta_5$ to be zero because active lenders have no information advantage over non-lenders post-disclosure.

%First, we examine position changes of active funds in the six months around the disclosure of a large short position, using an event study framework. We estimate a regression that includes a set of event-time indicator variables and a variable ($SecLend$) that captures if a fund has lent a particular stock in the months prior to the disclosure. The main variable of interest is the interaction term between the event-time dummies and $SecLend$, capturing how portfolio allocation decisions differ conditional on whether the fund is a past lender of the stock or not.

%Figure~\ref{Disclosure_Events} summarizes the results. The grey bars show the coefficient estimates for the interaction terms in each month. Prior to a disclosure, portfolio adjustments of active lenders are significantly different compared to those of active non-lenders. More specifically, past lenders of a stock start to reduce their positions three months in advance of the disclosure. The solid line shows the cumulative effects. For instance, the position of an active lender in the month before the disclosure of a large short position is 8\% lower relative to one held by an active non-lender. Once the information becomes public, there is no difference in the behavior of active lenders and non-lenders. All in all, these initial results suggest that participation in the securities lending market allows active funds to anticipate large short sales and to potentially front-run short sellers.

Our results are presented in Table~\ref{table_big_shorts}. Column 1 shows that securities lenders reduce their holdings of a stock in the month before a large position disclosure. The $Disclosure_{i,t+1} \times OnLoan_{i,j,t-1}$ coefficient is equal to -0.4397 and almost  50\% larger than the coefficient estimated for $OnLoan_{i,j,t-1}$. This result implies that mutual fund lenders not only respond to the private signal of sorting demand in their own lending but they can observe and respond to large short demand positions before these are publicly disclosed. The result is consistent with lending funds acquiring private information on the structure of security lending beyond their own contract, which allows them to front-run the market. As expected, the coefficients $\beta_4$ and $\beta_5$ are zero, showing that lenders' private information about the big short position becomes valueless once the position has been disclosed publicly. In column 2, we control for the aggregate short selling amount, finding similar results. These results suggest that fund managers can acquire valuable information through security lending, which allows them to anticipate large negative trades. Lenders produce their own private information rather than just reacting to the public signal of a large short sale position.

\subsection{Information Usage across Funds and Fund Families\label{sec:results-fund-families}}
The results so far show that active funds that lent a stock in the past are more likely to reduce or close their position compared to non-lenders when shorting demand is high in that stock. This suggests that fund managers value the information in shorting demand signals and closely monitor shorting demand for the stocks they lend. In this section, we examine how portable this information is across funds with different fund managers within a fund family and across funds with the same fund manager.