The German securities lending regulatory framework is similar to that faced by US funds. As laid out in \S\S 200 to 202 of the KAGB (Kapitalanlagegesetzbuch), open-end investment funds can engage in securities lending transactions under the following conditions: (1) the volume of securities lending transactions with a specific counter-party must not exceed 10\% of a fund's net asset value; (2) funds must receive collateral that is equivalent to at least 100\% of the loan value (depending on counter-party risk); (3) the collateral must be invested in high-quality sovereign debt, short-term money market funds, or repurchase agreements (repos); (4) funds must receive remuneration that reflects current market conditions; and (5) funds must be able to terminate the loan at any point in time. 

In addition to these rules, fund families also impose restrictions on the maximum amount of a fund's portfolio that can be lent out at any time. \label{pag:family_lending} Moreover, fund families can contract external securities lending agents or use in-house securities lending desks to pool their lending business across funds. While some German fund families have third-party lending agents, most employ in-house lending desks. In either case, securities lending revenues are usually split between the fund, which effectively lends the security and the lending agent. A report by \cite{voicu_prache:2019} on European UCITS ETFs shows that the revenue split between the lending fund and lending agent can range from around 50\%--50\% to up to 95\%--5\%. 

Our data on German mutual funds comes from the Investment Funds Statistics (IFS) of the Deutsche Bundesbank, covering December 2014 through December 2018. Since September 2009, all investment companies domiciled in Germany have been required to report general fund information, as well as information on their portfolio holdings, to the IFS. The data is collected every month and provides detailed \label{pag:end_of_month}end-of-month, security-by-security information about the portfolio of a fund. More specifically, a fund reports the ISIN, the number of shares held, and the nominal and the market value of each holding.\footnote{\cite{doetsch_flory_schoenberg:2018} provide a general description of the data and the variables collected for the Investment Fund Statistics.} 

In December 2014, the Bundesbank introduced a major change in funds' reporting to include securities lending activities. For each security in the portfolio, each fund must report the end-of-month nominal value of a position that is held in a lending transaction.\label{fn:lending_share_classes}\footnote{Similar to information on portfolio holdings, the information on securities lending positions is reported at the fund-security-level and therefore is constant across all share classes of an individual fund.} Since the IFS data is collected on a share class level, we merge the data with Morningstar fund information and aggregate the data to the fund level, matching the share classes' ISINs to the fund identifier provided by Morningstar. For funds with multiple share classes, we calculate fund returns and expenses as asset-weighted averages across share classes. For assets under management, fund flows, and fund holdings, we aggregate across all share classes. Fund age is based on the inception date of the oldest share class. The initial IFS-Morningstar matched sample consists of 2044 funds from 58 fund families.

Next, we apply several filters. First, we exclude closed-end funds and alternative investment funds. Second, we delete non-equity, sector, and emerging market funds based on their Morningstar fund category. Third, we only keep funds older than three years and that have more than \$10 million assets under management (AUM)to mitigate potential incubation biases \citep{evans:2010}. Our final sample has 320 German open-end equity mutual funds from 36 fund families.
According to the IFS, 267 funds are actively managed and 53 are passively managed. The investment focus of these funds is rather broad, as shown in Table~\ref{table_desc_stats_investment}. In terms of investment focus, 92 funds have a global focus, 135 funds are European, and 58 funds focus on German equity. In terms of AUM, 41\% of the AUM of sample funds are invested with a focus on global equity markets, 25\% with a focus on European equities, and 32\% on German equities. 


\label{pag:data_filters}We combine the IFS mutual fund data with stock information from Datastream, security lending data from IHS Markit, and the Fama-French risk factors from Kenneth French's data library.\footnote{Following \cite{Ferreira_etal2018JF}, we estimate four-factor alphas using regional factors based on a fund’s investment region and use world factors in the case of global funds.} Furthermore, we restrict our sample to holdings of securities identified as common or preferred equity (excluding 2\% of the sample observations) and to securities traded in the 23 developed markets as listed in \cite{fama_french:2012} (excluding another 2\% of the sample observations). Additionally, we drop an observation if the reporting date of the holding in the IFS data exceeds the stock's delisting date in Datastream (affecting less than 0.5\% of all observations). We remove fund-month pairs from the sample if a fund closes all positions in a given month because we assume that the fund is liquidated (affecting less than 0.5\% of all observations).

We then use the Bundesbank holdings data to calculate two variables that capture the monthly trading activity of a fund. $PosChange_{i,j,t}$ is the percentage change in the number of shares of stock $i$ held by fund $j$ in month $t$.\footnote{We winsorize the variable at the 99.5\% level.} The number of shares outstanding is adjusted for stock splits to ensure that market value adjustments do not drive position changes. In terms of the securities lending activity of a fund, we compute $sh\_sec\_lend_{i,j,t}$, defined as the fraction of a particular portfolio position in stock $i$ lent by fund $j$ in month $t$. 

%Moreover, we create the indicator variable $PosExit$, equal to one if a fund closes a particular position in a given month and zero otherwise. 

\label{pag:seclend_us_de}Table~\ref{table_desc_stats_seclending} provides summary statistics on the security lending behavior of German investment funds. A third of all funds participate in securities lending in our sample period. The share of securities lenders is lower for actively managed funds (26\%) compared to passive funds (70\%). Investment funds typically lend only a small fraction of their portfolio. On average, 3.8\% of AUM is \textit{On loan}. These figures are comparable to recent figures on mutual funds' securities lending practices in the U.S. (\cite{prado_saffi_sturgess:14}). According to the Investment Company Institute (ICI), among the 500 largest U.S. mutual funds in 2004, 37.6\% engage in securities lending, with 2.28\% of their AUM on loan \citep{ICI2014Viewpoints}.

Table~\ref{table_desc_stats} presents descriptive statistics for the monthly fund-security panel data. Portoflios are well-diversified with a mean (median) portfolio holidng of 1.1\& (0.63\%). In Panel A, we focus on portflio characteristics.  $2\%$ of a fund's positions are lent out in a given month and 5\% over the past twelve months. The relative frequency with which funds exit a position is 4\%. 


Panel~B of Table~\ref{table_desc_stats} presents descriptive statistics for the xx stocks in our sample. We measure aggregate shorting demand at the stock-level as the value of securities on loan scaled by the total market capitalization of that security ($OnLoan$), provided by IHS Markit. For the stocks held by German investment funds, total shorting demand has a mean of 2.5\% and a median of 1\%. 

Panel~C and Panel~D of Table~\ref{table_desc_stats} report fund-level and fund family-level characteristics. In our sample, 85\% of the observations originate from active funds and the remaining 15\% from passive funds. Overall, 20\% of the observations are from active and passive funds that participated in the securities lending market in a given month. Finally, 17\% of observations are from fund families with at least one fund participating in the securities lending market in a given month.

Lending funds benefit from accessing private information and can earn lending fees, but choosing to participate in the equity lending market also incurs some costs. In the Appendix Table \ref{table_decision_to_lend}, we examine how the propensity to lend by a fund is related to fund-level and family-level characteristics. We create an indicator variable equal to one if a fund does equity lending, and zero otherwise. Then, we estimate this lending indicator variable on a set of lender characteristics using the mean value over time for each fund. We find that passive funds are more likely to lend and consistent with a fixed cost of lending and economies of scale, that larger funds and those belonging to larger fund families are also more likely to lend.